.TH ELF32_GETCHDR 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf32_getchdr \- retrieve the command header for a command descriptor in an ELF32 file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf32_Chdr *elf32_getchdr(Elf_Cmd *" cmd ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf32_getchdr function retrieves the command header for the command descriptor referred to by .I cmd in an ELF32 object. The command header contains metadata about the command, such as its type, size, and memory offset.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I cmd
An .I Elf_Cmd pointer to the command descriptor whose command header is to be retrieved. The command descriptor must be valid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf32_getchdr function returns a pointer to the .I Elf32_Chdr structure representing the command header. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf32_getchdr fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I cmd parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the command header for a command descriptor"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Cmd *cmd = ...; // Assume cmd is a valid command descriptor

Elf32_Chdr *chdr = elf32_getchdr(cmd);
if (chdr == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use chdr
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getcmd (3),
.BR elf_nextcmd (3),
.BR elf_ndxcmd (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

