.TH ELF32_NEWPHDR 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf32_newphdr \- create a new program header table for an ELF32 file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf32_Phdr *elf32_newphdr(Elf *" elf ", size_t " count ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf32_newphdr function creates a new program header table for the ELF object referred to by .I elf. The number of entries in the new program header table is specified by .I count.

The function allocates a new array of .I Elf32_Phdr structures and makes it the program header table for the ELF object. Any previously existing program header table is discarded.

The program header table describes the segments of the ELF file. Each segment specifies information necessary for the system to prepare the program for execution.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object for which a new program header table is to be created.

.TP
.I count
A .I size_t value representing the number of entries in the new program header table.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf32_newphdr function returns a pointer to the first .I Elf32_Phdr structure in the newly created program header table. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf32_newphdr fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFMEM
Memory allocation failed.

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL, or .I count is zero.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Create a new program header table with 5 entries"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
size_t count = 5;

Elf32_Phdr *phdr = elf32_newphdr(elf, count);
if (phdr == NULL) {
    // Handle error
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf32_getphdr (3),
.BR elf64_newphdr (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

