.TH ELF64_XLATETOF 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf64_xlatetof \- translate ELF64 data to file representation

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "int elf64_xlatetof(Elf_Data *" dst ", const Elf_Data *" src ", unsigned int " encoding ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf64_xlatetof function translates ELF64 data from its memory representation to its file representation. This function is typically used to convert data from memory into a format suitable for writing to an ELF file.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I dst
An .I Elf_Data pointer to a structure where the translated data will be stored. The destination structure must be properly initialized.

.TP
.I src
A constant .I Elf_Data pointer to a structure containing the source data in its memory representation.

.TP
.I encoding
An .I unsigned int value specifying the encoding of the destination data. This parameter can be either .B ELFDATA2LSB (little-endian) or .B ELFDATA2MSB (big-endian).

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf64_xlatetof function returns 0 on success. If an error occurs, it returns -1 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf64_xlatetof fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
One or more of the parameters are NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Translate ELF64 data from memory to file representation"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf_Data src; // Assume src is properly initialized and contains memory representation data
Elf_Data dst;

if (elf64_xlatetof(&dst, &src, ELFDATA2LSB) != 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Process the translated data in dst
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf64_xlatetom (3),
.BR elf32_xlatetof (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

