.TH ELF64_GETCHDR 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf64_getchdr \- retrieve the chunk header for a chunk descriptor in an ELF64 file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf64_Chdr *elf64_getchdr(Elf_Scn *" scn ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf64_getchdr function retrieves the chunk header for the chunk descriptor referred to by .I scn in an ELF64 object. The chunk header contains metadata about the chunk, such as its type, size, and memory offset.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the chunk descriptor whose chunk header is to be retrieved. The chunk descriptor must be valid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf64_getchdr function returns a pointer to the .I Elf64_Chdr structure representing the chunk header. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf64_getchdr fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the chunk header for a chunk descriptor"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid chunk descriptor

Elf64_Chdr *chdr = elf64_getchdr(scn);
if (chdr == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use chdr
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_nextscn (3),
.BR elf_ndxscn (3),
.BR elf64_getshdr (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

