.TH ELF64_FSIZE 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf64_fsize \- calculate the file size of various ELF64 data structures

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "size_t elf64_fsize(Elf_Type " type ", size_t " count ", unsigned int " version ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf64_fsize function calculates the file size in bytes of various ELF64 data structures, given their type and count. This function is useful for determining the amount of space needed to store ELF64 data structures in a file.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I type
An .I Elf_Type value specifying the type of ELF64 data structure for which the file size is to be calculated. Valid types include .B ELF_T_EHDR, .B ELF_T_PHDR, .B ELF_T_SHDR, .B ELF_T_WORD, and others.

.TP
.I count
A .I size_t value specifying the number of elements of the specified type.

.TP
.I version
An .I unsigned int value specifying the ELF version. This should be set to .B EV_CURRENT.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf64_fsize function returns the size in bytes of the specified ELF64 data structures. If an error occurs, it returns 0 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf64_fsize fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
One or more of the parameters are invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Calculate the file size of 10 ELF64 section headers"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

size_t count = 10;
size_t size = elf64_fsize(ELF_T_SHDR, count, EV_CURRENT);
if (size == 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    printf("Size of 10 ELF64 section headers: %zu bytes\n", size);
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf32_fsize (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

