.TH ELF64_CHECKSUM 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf64_checksum \- compute the checksum for an ELF64 object

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "uint32_t elf64_checksum(Elf *" elf ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf64_checksum function computes a checksum for the ELF64 object referred to by .I elf. This checksum can be used to verify the integrity of the ELF64 object.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF64 object for which the checksum is to be computed. The ELF object must be valid and of type ELFCLASS64.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf64_checksum function returns a .I uint32_t value representing the computed checksum. If an error occurs, it returns 0 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf64_checksum fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Compute the checksum for an ELF64 object"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>
#include <stdio.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer for an ELF64 object

uint32_t checksum = elf64_checksum(elf);
if (checksum == 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    printf("Checksum for the ELF64 object: %u\n", checksum);
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf32_checksum (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

