.TH ELF_STRPTR 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_strptr \- retrieve a string from a string table in an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "char *elf_strptr(Elf *" elf ", size_t " section_index ", size_t " offset ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_strptr function retrieves a pointer to a string located at a specified offset within a specified section, typically a string table, in the ELF object referred to by .I elf.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object from which the string is to be retrieved. The ELF object must be valid.

.TP
.I section_index
A .I size_t value specifying the index of the section containing the string table.

.TP
.I offset
A .I size_t value specifying the offset within the string table where the string is located.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_strptr function returns a pointer to the string located at the specified offset within the specified section. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_strptr fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
One or more of the parameters are NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.TP
.B ELFNOTFOUND
The specified section or string was not found.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve a string from a string table in an ELF object"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
size_t section_index = ...; // Specify a valid section index
size_t offset = ...; // Specify a valid offset

char *str = elf_strptr(elf, section_index, offset);
if (str == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use the retrieved string
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_getdata (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

