.TH ELF_SCNSHNDX 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_scnshndx \- retrieve the extended section index for a section descriptor in an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "size_t elf_scnshndx(Elf *" elf ", Elf_Scn *" scn ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_scnshndx function retrieves the extended section index for the section descriptor referred to by .I scn within the ELF object referred to by .I elf. This is used in cases where the section index exceeds the size that can be represented in a 16-bit value.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object containing the section descriptor.

.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor whose extended section index is to be retrieved.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_scnshndx function returns the extended section index of the section descriptor. If an error occurs, it returns .B SHN_UNDEF and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_scnshndx fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf or .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the extended section index of a section descriptor"
.nf
.in +4
#include <gelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor

size_t index = elf_scnshndx(elf, scn);
if (index == SHN_UNDEF) {
    // Handle error
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_ndxscn (3),
.BR elf_nextscn (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

