.TH ELF_RAWFILE 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_rawfile \- retrieve the raw ELF file data

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "char *elf_rawfile(Elf *" elf ", size_t *" size ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_rawfile function retrieves a pointer to the raw data of the ELF file referred to by .I elf. It also optionally returns the size of the raw data.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF descriptor for which the raw file data is to be retrieved. The ELF descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I size
A pointer to a .I size_t variable where the size of the raw data will be stored. If .I size is NULL, the size information is not returned.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_rawfile function returns a pointer to the raw data of the ELF file. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_rawfile fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the raw data of an ELF file"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
size_t size;

char *data = elf_rawfile(elf, &size);
if (data == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use the raw data
    printf("Size of raw data: %zu\n", size);
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_begin (3),
.BR elf_end (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

