.TH ELF_KIND 3 "May 2024" "elfutils 0.186" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
elf_kind \- get the kind of an ELF descriptor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libelf.h>

Elf_Kind elf_kind(Elf *elf);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B elf_kind
returns the kind of the ELF descriptor 
.I elf.
The kind indicates whether the descriptor refers to an executable, a shared object, a core file, or other types of ELF files.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
Pointer to the ELF descriptor whose kind is to be determined.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.B elf_kind
returns one of the following constants defined in <libelf.h>:
.TP
.B ELF_K_NONE
The ELF descriptor is not valid.
.TP
.B ELF_K_AR
The descriptor refers to an archive.
.TP
.B ELF_K_ELF
The descriptor refers to an ELF file.
.TP
.B ELF_K_NUM
The number of ELF kinds defined.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
Elf *elf = elf_begin(fd, ELF_C_READ, NULL);
if (elf == NULL) {
    printf("Error: %s\n", elf_errmsg(-1));
} else {
    Elf_Kind kind = elf_kind(elf);
    switch (kind) {
    case ELF_K_ELF:
        printf("This is an ELF file.\n");
        break;
    case ELF_K_AR:
        printf("This is an archive.\n");
        break;
    default:
        printf("Unknown ELF kind.\n");
    }
    elf_end(elf);
}
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_begin (3),
.BR elf_end (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the elfutils development team.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH HISTORY
.B elf_kind
first appeared in elfutils 0.186.

