.TH ELF_FLAGSHDR 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_flagshdr \- set or clear flags for an ELF section header

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "unsigned int elf_flagshdr(Elf_Scn *" scn ", Elf_Cmd " cmd ", unsigned int " flags ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_flagshdr function sets or clears flags for the section header of the section descriptor referred to by .I scn in an ELF object. This function can be used to control various aspects of how the section header is handled.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor for which the section header flags are to be set or cleared. The section descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I cmd
An .I Elf_Cmd value specifying the operation to be performed. This can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_C_SET
Set the specified flags.
.IP \- ELF_C_CLR
Clear the specified flags.
.RE

.TP
.I flags
An .I unsigned int value specifying the flags to be set or cleared. Possible flags include:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_F_DIRTY
Indicate that the section header has been modified.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_flagshdr function returns the updated flags for the section header. If an error occurs, it returns 0 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_flagshdr fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Set the ELF_F_DIRTY flag for an ELF section header"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor

if (elf_flagshdr(scn, ELF_C_SET, ELF_F_DIRTY) == 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Flag set successfully
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_flagdata (3),
.BR elf_flagehdr (3),
.BR elf_flagelf (3),
.BR elf_flagphdr (3),
.BR elf_flagscn (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

