.TH ELF_NDXSCN 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_ndxscn \- retrieve the index of a section descriptor for an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "size_t elf_ndxscn(Elf_Scn *" scn ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_ndxscn function retrieves the index of the section descriptor referred to by .I scn within the ELF object. Section indices are used to identify sections in an ELF file.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor whose index is to be retrieved. The section descriptor must be valid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_ndxscn function returns the index of the section descriptor. If an error occurs, it returns .B SHN_UNDEF.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_ndxscn fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the index of a section descriptor"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor

size_t index = elf_ndxscn(scn);
if (index == SHN_UNDEF) {
    // Handle error
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_nextscn (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

