.TH ELF_FLAGDATA 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_flagdata \- set or clear flags for an ELF data descriptor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "unsigned int elf_flagdata(Elf_Data *" data ", Elf_Cmd " cmd ", unsigned int " flags ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_flagdata function sets or clears flags for the data descriptor referred to by .I data in an ELF object. This function can be used to control various aspects of how the data is handled.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I data
An .I Elf_Data pointer to the data descriptor for which the flags are to be set or cleared. The data descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I cmd
An .I Elf_Cmd value specifying the operation to be performed. This can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_C_SET
Set the specified flags.
.IP \- ELF_C_CLR
Clear the specified flags.
.RE

.TP
.I flags
An .I unsigned int value specifying the flags to be set or cleared. Possible flags include:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_F_DIRTY
Indicate that the data descriptor has been modified.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_flagdata function returns the updated flags for the data descriptor. If an error occurs, it returns 0 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_flagdata fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I data parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Set the ELF_F_DIRTY flag for an ELF data descriptor"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor
Elf_Data *data = ...; // Assume data is a valid data descriptor

if (elf_flagdata(data, ELF_C_SET, ELF_F_DIRTY) == 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Flag set successfully
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_flagehdr (3),
.BR elf_flagelf (3),
.BR elf_flagphdr (3),
.BR elf_flagscn (3),
.BR elf_flagshdr (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

