.TH ELF_GETARSYM 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getarsym \- retrieve the archive symbol table for an ELF archive

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Arsym *elf_getarsym(Elf *" elf ", size_t *" ptr ", size_t *" nsyms ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getarsym function retrieves the archive symbol table for the ELF archive referred to by .I elf. The function returns an array of .I Elf_Arsym structures, which provide information about the symbols in the archive.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF archive from which the symbol table is to be retrieved. The ELF archive must be valid.

.TP
.I ptr
A pointer to a .I size_t variable where the number of bytes used to store the symbol table will be stored. If .I ptr is NULL, this information is not returned.

.TP
.I nsyms
A pointer to a .I size_t variable where the number of symbols in the symbol table will be stored. If .I nsyms is NULL, this information is not returned.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getarsym function returns a pointer to an array of .I Elf_Arsym structures on success. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getarsym fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the archive symbol table for an ELF archive"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer for an archive
size_t nsyms;

Elf_Arsym *arsym = elf_getarsym(elf, NULL, &nsyms);
if (arsym == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    for (size_t i = 0; i < nsyms; ++i) {
        printf("Symbol: %s, Offset: %zu\n", arsym[i].as_name, arsym[i].as_off);
    }
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_getarhdr (3),
.BR elf_begin (3),
.BR elf_next (3),
.BR elf_end (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

