.TH ELF_NEWDATA 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_newdata \- create a new data descriptor for an ELF section

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Data *elf_newdata(Elf_Scn *" scn ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_newdata function creates a new data descriptor for the section descriptor referred to by .I scn in an ELF object. This new data descriptor can be used to add or modify the contents of the section.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor for which a new data descriptor is to be created. The section descriptor must be valid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_newdata function returns a pointer to the newly created .I Elf_Data structure representing the data descriptor. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_newdata fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Create a new data descriptor for a section"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor

Elf_Data *data = elf_newdata(scn);
if (data == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use the new data descriptor
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_getdata (3),
.BR elf_rawdata (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

