.TH ELF_FLAGSCN 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_flagscn \- set or clear flags for an ELF section

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "unsigned int elf_flagscn(Elf_Scn *" scn ", Elf_Cmd " cmd ", unsigned int " flags ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_flagscn function sets or clears flags for the section referred to by .I scn in an ELF object. This function can be used to control various aspects of how the section is handled.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor for which the flags are to be set or cleared. The section descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I cmd
An .I Elf_Cmd value specifying the operation to be performed. This can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_C_SET
Set the specified flags.
.IP \- ELF_C_CLR
Clear the specified flags.
.RE

.TP
.I flags
An .I unsigned int value specifying the flags to be set or cleared. Possible flags include:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_F_DIRTY
Indicate that the section has been modified.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_flagscn function returns the updated flags for the section. If an error occurs, it returns 0 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_flagscn fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Set the ELF_F_DIRTY flag for an ELF section"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor

if (elf_flagscn(scn, ELF_C_SET, ELF_F_DIRTY) == 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Flag set successfully
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_flagdata (3),
.BR elf_flagehdr (3),
.BR elf_flagelf (3),
.BR elf_flagphdr (3),
.BR elf_flagshdr (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

