.TH ELF_GETSHDRNUM 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getshdrnum \- retrieve the number of section headers in an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "int elf_getshdrnum(Elf *" elf ", size_t *" shnum ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getshdrnum function retrieves the number of section headers in the ELF object referred to by .I elf. The number of section headers is stored in the location pointed to by .I shnum.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object from which the number of section headers is to be retrieved.

.TP
.I shnum
A pointer to a .I size_t variable where the number of section headers will be stored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getshdrnum function returns 0 on success. On error, it returns -1 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getshdrnum fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf or .I shnum parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the number of section headers in an ELF file"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
size_t shnum;

if (elf_getshdrnum(elf, &shnum) != 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use shnum
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getshdr (3),
.BR elf_getshdrstrndx (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

