.TH ELF_GETARHDR 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getarhdr \- retrieve the archive header for an ELF archive member

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Arhdr *elf_getarhdr(Elf *" elf ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getarhdr function retrieves the archive header for the current member of the ELF archive referred to by .I elf. This function is used to access metadata about the archive member, such as its name, date, user ID, group ID, mode, and size.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF archive member for which the archive header is to be retrieved. The ELF archive member must be valid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getarhdr function returns a pointer to an .I Elf_Arhdr structure representing the archive header. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getarhdr fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the archive header for an ELF archive member"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer for an archive member

Elf_Arhdr *arhdr = elf_getarhdr(elf);
if (arhdr == NULL) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use the retrieved archive header
    printf("Member name: %s\n", arhdr->ar_name);
    printf("Member size: %ld\n", arhdr->ar_size);
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_begin (3),
.BR elf_next (3),
.BR elf_end (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

