.TH ELF_GETSHDRSTRNDX 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getshdrstrndx \- retrieve the section header string table index for an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "int elf_getshdrstrndx(Elf *" elf ", size_t *" strndx ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getshdrstrndx function retrieves the section header string table index for the ELF object referred to by .I elf. The section header string table index is stored in the location pointed to by .I strndx.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object from which the section header string table index is to be retrieved.

.TP
.I strndx
A pointer to a .I size_t variable where the section header string table index will be stored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getshdrstrndx function returns 0 on success. On error, it returns -1 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getshdrstrndx fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf or .I strndx parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the section header string table index in an ELF file"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
size_t strndx;

if (elf_getshdrstrndx(elf, &strndx) != 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Use strndx
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getshdrnum (3),
.BR elf_getshdr (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

