.TH ELF_NEXTSCN 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_nextscn \- retrieve the next section descriptor for an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Scn *elf_nextscn(Elf *" elf ", Elf_Scn *" scn ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_nextscn function retrieves the section descriptor for the section following the one referred to by .I scn within the ELF object referred to by .I elf.

If .I scn is NULL, .B elf_nextscn returns the first section descriptor for the ELF object.

Sections in an ELF file contain various types of data, such as program code, symbol tables, and relocation information. This function allows iteration through all the sections in an ELF file.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object from which the section descriptor is to be retrieved.

.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the current section descriptor. If NULL, the function returns the first section descriptor.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_nextscn function returns a pointer to the .I Elf_Scn structure for the next section. If there are no more sections, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_nextscn fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Iterate through all section descriptors in an ELF file"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = NULL;

while ((scn = elf_nextscn(elf, scn)) != NULL) {
    // Process each section descriptor
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_ndxscn (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

