.TH ELF_COMPRESS 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_compress \- compress sections in an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "int elf_compress(Elf_Scn *" scn ", unsigned int " compression_type ", int " flags ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_compress function compresses the section referred to by .I scn in an ELF object. The type of compression and additional flags can be specified.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor to be compressed. The section descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I compression_type
An .I unsigned int value specifying the type of compression to use. Typically, this corresponds to one of the ELF compression types defined in the ELF standard (e.g., .B ELFCOMPRESS_ZLIB).

.TP
.I flags
An .I int value specifying additional options for compression. Possible values include .B ELF_F_COMPR_ZLIB, which indicates that the section should be compressed using the ZLIB algorithm.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_compress function returns 0 on success. On error, it returns -1 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_compress fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.TP
.B ELFCOMPR
Compression failed due to an issue with the compression algorithm or the data being compressed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Compress a section in an ELF file using ZLIB"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor

if (elf_compress(scn, ELFCOMPRESS_ZLIB, 0) != 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Section is now compressed
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf32_getshdr (3),
.BR elf64_getshdr (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

