.TH ELF_GETDATA_RAWCHUNK 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getdata_rawchunk \- retrieve a raw data chunk from an ELF object

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "int elf_getdata_rawchunk(Elf *" elf ", off_t " offset ", size_t " size ", unsigned int " type ", Elf_Data *" data ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getdata_rawchunk function retrieves a raw data chunk from the ELF object referred to by .I elf. The data chunk is specified by its file offset, size, and type, and is returned in the .I data structure provided by the caller.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object from which the raw data chunk is to be retrieved. The ELF object must be valid.

.TP
.I offset
An .I off_t value specifying the offset in the file where the data chunk begins.

.TP
.I size
A .I size_t value specifying the size of the data chunk to be retrieved.

.TP
.I type
An .I unsigned int value specifying the type of data chunk. This parameter can be used to specify different types of data (e.g., section data, segment data).

.TP
.I data
An .I Elf_Data pointer to a data structure where the retrieved raw data chunk will be stored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getdata_rawchunk function returns 0 on success. On error, it returns -1 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getdata_rawchunk fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
One or more of the parameters are NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve a raw data chunk from an ELF object"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
off_t offset = ...; // Specify a valid offset
size_t size = ...; // Specify a valid size
unsigned int type = ...; // Specify a valid type
Elf_Data data;

if (elf_getdata_rawchunk(elf, offset, size, type, &data) != 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Process the raw data chunk
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_getdata (3),
.BR elf_rawdata (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

