.TH ELF_NEWSCN 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_newscn \- create a new section descriptor for an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Scn *elf_newscn(Elf *" elf ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_newscn function creates a new section descriptor for the ELF object referred to by .I elf. This new section is added to the end of the section list for the ELF object.

Sections in an ELF file contain various types of data, such as program code, symbol tables, and relocation information. This function allows the creation of additional sections in an ELF file.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object to which a new section is to be added.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_newscn function returns a pointer to the .I Elf_Scn structure for the new section. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_newscn fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFMEM
Memory allocation failed.

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Create a new section in an ELF file"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer

Elf_Scn *scn = elf_newscn(elf);
if (scn == NULL) {
    // Handle error
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_nextscn (3),
.BR elf_ndxscn (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

