.TH ELF_RAWDATA 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_rawdata \- retrieve raw data from an ELF section

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Data *elf_rawdata(Elf_Scn *" scn ", Elf_Data *" data ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_rawdata function retrieves the raw, unprocessed data from the section descriptor referred to by .I scn in an ELF object. If .I data is NULL, the function returns the first data descriptor for the section. If .I data is not NULL, the function returns the next data descriptor following .I data in the section.

This function is useful for accessing the raw contents of a section, as it exists in the ELF file, without any processing or interpretation.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I scn
An .I Elf_Scn pointer to the section descriptor from which the raw data is to be retrieved. The section descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I data
An .I Elf_Data pointer to the current data descriptor. If NULL, the function returns the first data descriptor for the section. If not NULL, the function returns the next data descriptor following this one in the section.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_rawdata function returns a pointer to the .I Elf_Data structure representing the raw data descriptor. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_rawdata fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I scn parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve all raw data descriptors for a section"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
Elf_Scn *scn = ...; // Assume scn is a valid section descriptor
Elf_Data *data = NULL;

while ((data = elf_rawdata(scn, data)) != NULL) {
    // Process each raw data descriptor
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_getdata (3),
.BR elf_newdata (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

