.TH ELF_FLAGELF 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_flagelf \- set or clear flags for an ELF descriptor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "unsigned int elf_flagelf(Elf *" elf ", Elf_Cmd " cmd ", unsigned int " flags ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_flagelf function sets or clears flags for the ELF descriptor referred to by .I elf. This function can be used to control various aspects of how the ELF descriptor is handled.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF descriptor for which the flags are to be set or cleared. The ELF descriptor must be valid.

.TP
.I cmd
An .I Elf_Cmd value specifying the operation to be performed. This can be one of the following:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_C_SET
Set the specified flags.
.IP \- ELF_C_CLR
Clear the specified flags.
.RE

.TP
.I flags
An .I unsigned int value specifying the flags to be set or cleared. Possible flags include:
.RS
.IP \- ELF_F_DIRTY
Indicate that the ELF descriptor has been modified.
.IP \- ELF_F_LAYOUT
Indicate that the layout of the ELF file should be preserved.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_flagelf function returns the updated flags for the ELF descriptor. If an error occurs, it returns 0 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_flagelf fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Set the ELF_F_DIRTY flag for an ELF descriptor"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer

if (elf_flagelf(elf, ELF_C_SET, ELF_F_DIRTY) == 0) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    // Flag set successfully
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_flagdata (3),
.BR elf_flagehdr (3),
.BR elf_flagphdr (3),
.BR elf_flagscn (3),
.BR elf_flagshdr (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

