.TH ELF_GETAROFF 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getaroff \- retrieve the offset of the current archive member in an ELF archive

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "off_t elf_getaroff(Elf *" elf ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getaroff function retrieves the file offset of the current archive member within the ELF archive referred to by .I elf. This offset is the position in the archive file where the header of the current member begins.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF archive from which the offset of the current archive member is to be retrieved. The ELF archive must be valid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getaroff function returns the offset of the current archive member on success. If an error occurs, it returns -1 and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getaroff fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL or invalid.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the offset of the current archive member in an ELF archive"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer for an archive

off_t offset = elf_getaroff(elf);
if (offset == -1) {
    // Handle error
} else {
    printf("Offset of current archive member: %ld\n", offset);
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf (3),
.BR elf_getarhdr (3),
.BR elf_begin (3),
.BR elf_next (3),
.BR elf_end (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

