.TH ELF_GETSCN 3 "June 2024" "Elfutils" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
elf_getscn \- retrieve a section descriptor for an ELF file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Scn *elf_getscn(Elf *" elf ", size_t " index ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The .B elf_getscn function retrieves a section descriptor for the section at the specified index in the ELF object referred to by .I elf.

Sections in an ELF file contain various types of data, such as program code, symbol tables, and relocation information. Each section is described by an .I Elf_Scn structure.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
An .I Elf pointer to the ELF object from which the section descriptor is to be retrieved.

.TP
.I index
A .I size_t value representing the index of the section whose descriptor is to be retrieved. Section indices start at 0.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The .B elf_getscn function returns a pointer to the .I Elf_Scn structure for the section at the specified index. If an error occurs, it returns NULL and sets an appropriate error code.

.SH ERRORS
If .B elf_getscn fails, it sets the following error codes:

.TP
.B ELFMEM
Memory allocation failed.

.TP
.B ELFARG
The .I elf parameter is NULL, or .I index is out of range.

.TP
.B ELFERR
An unspecified internal error occurred.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B "Example 1: Retrieve the section descriptor for the first section"
.nf
.in +4
#include <libelf.h>

Elf *elf = ...; // Assume elf is a valid Elf pointer
size_t index = 1;

Elf_Scn *scn = elf_getscn(elf, index);
if (scn == NULL) {
    // Handle error
}
.in -4
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_nextscn (3),
.BR elf_getshdr (3),
.BR elf (3),
.BR libelf (3)

.SH AUTHORS
Elfutils was written by the Elfutils development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Elfutils Development Team. 
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

