.TH GELF_GETLIB 3 2025-12-31 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
gelf_getlib \- Get prelink library from table at the given index

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "GElf_Lib *gelf_getlib (Elf_Data *" data ", int " ndx ", GElf_Lib *" dst ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Retrieve a prelink library table entry from
.I data
at index
.I ndx
and store it in the class\-independent representation pointed to by
.IR dst .

.PP
.I data
must be an
.B Elf_Data*
associated with a section of type
.BR SHT_GNU_LIBLIST .
.I data->d_type
should be
.BR ELF_T_LIB .
.B SHT_GNU_LIBLIST
sections are used by the prelink utility.  See
https://sourceware.org/gnu-gabi/prelink.txt for more information.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I data
Pointer to an
.B Elf_Data
of a section with type
.BR SHT_GNU_LIBLIST .
.I data->d_type
should be
.BR ELF_T_LIB .

.TP
.I ndx
Zero\-based index of the requested prelink library table entry within
.IR data .

.TP
.I dst
Pointer to a caller\-provided
.B GElf_Lib
structure for storing the requested prelink library table entry.
Must not be NULL.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, this function updates
.I dst
with the requested prelink library table entry and returns
.IR dst .
On failure, it returns NULL and sets elf_errno.  If
.I data
is NULL, then NULL is returned without setting elf_errno.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gelf_update_lib (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR gelf_getlib ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.

.SH HISTORY
.B gelf_getlib
first appeared in elfutils 0.95.  This function is an elfutils libelf extension and
may not be available in other libelf implementations.
