.TH GELF_GETSYMSHNDX 3 2025-12-30 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
gelf_getsymshndx \- Retrieve symbol information and separate section index
from the symbol table at the given index.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "GElf_Sym *gelf_getsymshndx (Elf_Data *" symdata ", Elf_Data *" shndxdata ", int " ndx ", GElf_Sym *" sym ", Elf32_Word *" xshndx ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This function retrieves the symbol information for a symbol at index
.I ndx
in
.I symdata
of a section with type
.B SHT_SYMTAB
and stores it in
.IR sym .
This function also retrieves the symbol's extended section index from
.B shndxdata
of a section with type
.BR SHT_SYMTAB_SHNDX
and stores it in
.IR xshndx .

.I xshndx
will contain a non-zero value only for the symbols which have an
.I st_shndx
value of
.BR SHN_XINDEX .
See
.B EXAMPLE
below.

The number of symbols in the symbol table can be calculated by dividing the
size of
.I symdata
by the size of a symbol table entry.
The size of
.I symdata
can be obtained from
.I symdata->d_size
or from the corresponding section header's
.BR sh_size .
The size of a symbol table entry can be obtained from
.BR gelf_fsize (3)
with
.B ELF_T_SYM
or from the corresponding section header's
.BR sh_entsize .

A
.B SHT_SYMTAB_SHNDX
section is present in ELF binaries when the number of sections is too large to
be represented as an unsigned 16-bit value.  In this case the
.B st_shndx
field of a
.B GElf_Sym
will be set to
.B SHN_XINDEX
to indicate that the symbol's section index can be found in the
.B SHT_SYMTAB_SHNDX
section.
.I shndxdata
for this section can be acquired using
.BR elf_scnshndx (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
and
.BR elf_getdata (3).
The number of entries in
.I shndxdata
must be equal to the number of entries in
.IR symdata .
Entry
.I ndx
in
.I shndxdata
corresponds to entry
.I ndx
in
.IR symdata .

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I symdata
Pointer to
.B Elf_Data
for a
.B SHT_SYMTAB
section.

.TP
.I shndxdata
Pointer to
.B Elf_Data
for a
.B SHT_SYMTAB_SHNDX
section. May be NULL.

.TP
.I ndx
Zero\-based index of the symbol table entry in
.B symdata
and extended section index entry in
.BR shndxdata .

.TP
.I sym
Pointer to a caller\-provided
.B GElf_Sym
structure for storing the symbol table entry.  Must not be NULL.

.TP
.I xshndx
Pointer to a caller\-provided
.B Elf32_Word
for storing the extended section index associated with the symbol.  May
be NULL.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, this function updates
.I sym
and
.I xshndx
(if not NULL) and returns
.IR sym .
On failure, it returns NULL and sets elf_errno.  If
.I symdata
is NULL, then NULL is returned and elf_errno is not set.
.I xshndx
is set only if both itself and
.I shndxdata
are not NULL.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
  GElf_Sym sym;
  Elf32_Word shndx;

  /* If the symbol uses an extended section index, gelf_getsymshndx stores
     it in shndx.  Otherwise the symbol's section index is taken directly
     from sym.st_shndx.  */
  if (gelf_getsymshndx (symdata, shndxdata, ndx, &sym, &shndx) != NULL
      && sym.st_shndx != SHN_XINDEX)
    shndx = sym.st_shndx;
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf_getdata (3),
.BR elf_getscn (3),
.BR elf_scnshndx (3),
.BR gelf_fsize (3),
.BR gelf_getsym (3),
.BR gelf_update_symshndx (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR gelf_getsymshndx ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.
