.TH GELF_XLATETOM 3 2025-12-28 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
gelf_xlatetom \- Translate class-independent ELF data from file representation
to memory representation

gelf_xlatetof \- Translate class-independent ELF data from memory representation
to file representation

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "Elf_Data gelf_xlatetom (Elf *" elf ", Elf_Data *" dest ", const Elf_Data *" src ", unsigned int " encode ");"
.BI "Elf_Data gelf_xlatetof (Elf *" elf ", Elf_Data *" dest ", const Elf_Data *" src ", unsigned int " encode ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Translate ELF data from file representation to memory representation or
vice versa.  File and memory representations of ELF data can differ in
terms of endianness.
.BR gelf_xlatetom ()
acts as a wrapper around
.BR elf32_xlatetom ()
and
.BR elf64_xlatetom ().
.BR gelf_xlatetof ()
acts as a wrapper around
.BR elf32_xlatetof ()
and
.BR elf64_xlatetof ().
The binary class (\fBELFCLASS32\fP or \fBELFCLASS64\fP) of
.I elf
is used to automatically select between the elf32 and elf64 version of each
function.

Data in file representation normally comes from
.B elf_rawdata
while data in memory representation normally comes from
.BR elf_getdata .
When there is no difference between file and memory representations,
these functions simply copy the ELF data from
.I src
to
.IR dest .
Otherwise the encoding will swap between
.B ELFDATA2LSB
(two's complement little-endian) and
.B ELFDATA2MSB
(two's complement big-endian). The encoding of an ELF file is specified
in the
.B Elf32_Ehdr
or
.B Elf64_Ehdr e_ident[EI_DATA]
member.  To know the memory encoding for a program you can
.B #include <endian.h>
and check BYTE_ORDER == LITTLE_ENDIAN (corresponding to
.BR ELFDATA2LSB )
or BYTE_ORDER == BIG_ENDIAN (corresponding to
.BR ELFDATA2MSB ).

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
The ELF descriptor that determines the binary class (\fBELFCLASS32\fP or
\fBELFCLASS64\fP) used to translate between file and memory representation.

.TP
.I dest
Destination where the translated data will be stored.
The
.B d_size
of
.I dest
should be at least as big as the
.B d_size
of
.IR src .

.TP
.I src
Source data. For the
.B xlatetom
functions, the source data should be in file representation.
For the
.B xlatetof
functions, the source data should be in memory representation.

.TP
.I encode
Specifies an encoding.  Can be either
.B ELFDATA2LSB
(two's complement little-endian) or
.B ELFDATA2MSB
(two's complement big-endian).  For the
.B xlatetom
functions, this specifies the encoding of
.IR src .
For the
.B xlatetof
functions, this specifies the encoding of
.IR dest .

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, return
.IR dest ,
which will contain the translated data.  If there is no difference
between the file and memory representations,
.I dest
will contain a copy of the source data.  The
.B d_type
and
.B d_size
of
.I dest
will be set to those of
.IR src .

On failure, return NULL and set elf_errno.  If
.IR elf ,
.I src
or
.I dest
is NULL, then NULL is returned without setting elf_errno.


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf32_xlatetof (3),
.BR elf32_xlatetom (3),
.BR elf64_xlatetof (3),
.BR elf64_xlatetom (3),
.BR elf_getdata (3),
.BR elf_rawdata (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR gelf_xlatetom ()
.BR gelf_xlatetof ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.
