.TH GELF_FSIZE 3 2025-12-22 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
gelf_fsize \- calculate the file size of an ELF data structure

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "size_t gelf_fsize (Elf *" elf ", Elf_Type " type ", size_t " count ", unsigned int " version ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Return
the number of bytes needed for the on-disk representation of an array of
.I count
elements with type denoted by
.IR type .
The number of bytes depends on the binary class (\fBELFCLASS32\fR or
.BR ELFCLASS64 )
of the given
.IR elf .
The on-disk and in-memory representations of
.B Elf_Type
are assumed to be the same. See
.BR libelf (3)
for more information regarding
.BR Elf_Type .

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I elf
The Elf descriptor that determines the binary class used to compute the
file size.

.TP
.I type
The ELF data structure for which the file size is to be calculated.

.TP
.I count
The number of elements of the specified type.

.TP
.I version
The ELF version.  This should be set to
.BR EV_CURRENT ,
which is the only valid value.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The size in bytes of the specified count and type of data structure.
If version is not set to
.B EV_CURRENT
or
.I type
is not a valid
.BR Elf_Type ,
then 0 is returned and elf_errno is set.  Integer overflow can occur if
the size of
.I type
multiplied by
.I count
is greater than
.BR SIZE_MAX .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR elf32_fsize (3),
.BR elf64_fsize (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR gelf_fsize ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.
