.TH GELF_UPDATE_LIB 3 2025-12-31 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
gelf_update_lib \- Update prelink library in table at the given index

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "int gelf_update_lib (Elf_Data *" data ", int " ndx ", GElf_Lib *" src ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Copy a class\-independent prelink library table entry from
.I src
into the
.BR SHT_GNU_LIBLIST .
section associated with
.I data
at index
.IR ndx .

.PP
.I data
must be an
.B Elf_Data*
associated with a section of type
.BR SHT_GNU_LIBLIST .
.I data->d_type
should be
.BR ELF_T_LIB .
.B SHT_GNU_LIBLIST
sections are used by the prelink utility.  See
https://sourceware.org/gnu-gabi/prelink.txt for more information.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I data
Pointer to an
.B Elf_Data
associated with a section with type
.BR SHT_GNU_LIBLIST .
.I data->d_type
should be
.BR ELF_T_LIB .

.TP
.I ndx
Zero\-based index of the prelink library table entry to be updated within
.IR data .

.TP
.I src
Pointer to a caller\-provided prelink library table entry.
.I src
must not be NULL.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, this function returns a non-zero value and updates
the prelink library table entry at index
.I ndx
in
.IR data .
The section associated with
.I data
is flagged with
.BR ELF_F_DIRTY .
On failure, zero is returned and elf_errno is set.  If
.I data
is NULL, then zero is returned and elf_errno is not set.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gelf_getlib (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR gelf_update_lib ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.

.SH HISTORY
.B gelf_update_lib
first appeared in elfutils 0.95. This function is an elfutils libelf extension and
may not be available in other libelf implementations.
