.TH GELF_GETSYM 3 2025-12-29 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
gelf_getsym \- Retrieve class\-independent symbol information from the symbol
table at the given index

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <gelf.h>

.BI "GElf_Sym *gelf_getsym (Elf_Data *" data ", int " ndx ", GElf_Sym *" dst ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Translate the symbol table entry at index
.I ndx
from
.I data
into a class\-independent representation stored in
.IR *dst .

.PP
.I data
must be the
.B Elf_Data
of a section with type
.B SHT_SYMTAB
or
.BR SHT_DYNSYM .

The number of symbols in the symbol table can be calculated by dividing the
size of the corresponding section (\fBsh_size\fP or \fBd_size\fP)
by the size of a symbol table entry.  The size of a symbol table entry can be
obtained from
.B sh_entsize
or
.BR gelf_fsize (3).

If the corresponding elf contains more than 64K sections then
.BR gelf_getsymshndx
should be used to retrieve a symbol's section index.  See
.BR gelf_getsymshndx (3)
for more information.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I data
Pointer to an
.B Elf_Data
of a
.B SHT_SYMTAB
or
.B SHT_DYNSYM
section.

.TP
.I ndx
Zero\-based index of the symbol table entry within
.IR data .

.TP
.I dst
Pointer to a caller\-provided structure for storing the symbol table entry.
.I dst
must not be NULL.

.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, this function returns
.IR dst .
On failure, it returns NULL and sets elf_errno.  If
.I data
is NULL, then NULL is returned without setting elf_errno.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gelf_getdyn (3),
.BR gelf_getsymshndx (3),
.BR gelf_update_sym (3),
.BR libelf (3),
.BR elf (5)

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
allbox;
lbx lb lb
l l l.
Interface	Attribute	Value
T{
.na
.nh
.BR gelf_getsym ()
T}	Thread safety	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.
