.TH LIBELF 3 2024-10-18 "Libelf" "Libelf Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
libelf \- a library for accessing and manipulating ELF (Executable and Linkable
Format) files
.SH LIBRARY
Elfutils library (\fBlibelf\fP, \fBlibelf.so\fP, \fB-lelf\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libelf.h>
.B #include <gelf.h>

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBlibelf\fP library provides an API for reading, writing, and manipulating
ELF (Executable and Linkable Format) files. ELF is a standard format for object
files, shared libraries, core dumps, and executables.  See
.BR elf (5)
for more information regarding ELF.

\fBlibelf\fP provides routines for working with ELF object file headers,
sections, symbol tables, relocation entries, and other key components.

The core of the library is based on
.I Elf
file descriptors representing ELF files, which can be read from, written to,
or updated in-place. The \fBelf_begin\fP function initializes access to an
ELF object, while additional functions like \fBelf_getscn\fP, \fBelf_getdata\fP,
and \fBelf_ndxscn\fP provide access to specific parts of the ELF file.

.SH GELF INTERFACE
\fB<gelf.h>\fP provides a class-independent interface to \fBlibelf\fP that
transparently handles both \fBELFCLASS32\fP and \fBELFCLASS64\fP binaries.
This allows callers to avoid selecting \fBlibelf\fP functions that are
specialized for working with a particular class of ELF binary.

\fIGElf_\fP types defined in \fB<gelf.h>\fP are aliases for their \fIElf64_\fP
equivalents. Any conversions to \fIElf32_\fP types are handled internally by
\fBgelf_\fP functions. See \fBGELF DATA STRUCTURES\fP and \fBGELF MACROS\fP
for more information. When using \fBgelf_\fP functions that modify data
structure values for \fBELFCLASS32\fP binaries, the size of the value should
not exceed the maximum size of the \fBELFCLASS32\fP equivalent.

.SH FILE VS MEMORY REPRESENTATION

The \fBlibelf\fP library distinguishes between the file representation of an
ELF file and its memory representation.

.PP
File Representation refers to the format in which an ELF file is stored on disk.
The fields in the file may use specific sizes, alignment, and byte ordering
(endianness) that could be different from the native format used by the host
system.

.PP
Memory Representation refers to the way the ELF data is organized when loaded
into an application's memory. In memory, the data structures are typically
converted into the native format of the host system (e.g., the system's
endianness, word size, and alignment).

.PP
\fBlibelf\fP provides the following functions to translate ELF data between
file and memory representations:
.BR elf32_xlatetom ,
.BR elf64_xlatetom ,
.BR elf32_xlatetof ,
and
.BR elf64_xlatetof .
\fB<gelf.h>\fP provides
.B gelf_xlatetom
and
.B gelf_xlatetof
for class-independent translation between file and memory representations.

See
.BR elf32_xlatetom (3)
for more information.

.SH ELF VERSION

To account for the possibility of multiple versions of the ELF specification,
the ELF version number must be specified with the \fBelf_version\fP function
before any other \fBlibelf\fP functions. This function sets \fBlibelf\fP's ELF
version to the specified value.  At this time the only supported ELF version is
\fBEV_CURRENT\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTORS
.I Elf
descriptors the central \fBlibelf\fP object for accessing and manipulating
ELF files.  They are created with the
.BR elf_begin ,
.BR elf_clone ,
and
.B elf_memory
functions and closed with the
.B elf_end
function.

\fBlibelf\fP also provides
.I Elf_Scn
and
.I Elf_Data
descriptors for ELF sections and section contents, respectively.  Members
of the
.I Elf_Data
struct are described below.
Members of the
.I Elf
and
.I Elf_Scn
structs are hidden from applications.

These descriptors can be acquired and modified using various
functions provided by \fBlibelf\fP.  See
.B libelf.h
for a complete list.

.SH ERROR HANDLING
If a \fBlibelf\fP function encounters an error it will set an internal
error code that can be retrieved with
.BR elf_errno .
Each thread maintains its own separate error code.  The meaning of
each error code can be determined with
.BR elf_errmsg,
which returns a string describing the error. \fBlibelf\fP functions
returning a pointer return NULL on failure.

.SH MEMORY MANAGEMENT
\fBlibelf\fP manages all of the memory it allocates and frees it with
.BR elf_end .
The application must not call
.B free
on any memory allocated by \fBlibelf\fP.

.SH NAMESPACE
\fBlibelf\fP uses the following prefix format. See \fBlibelf.h\fP and
\fBgelf.h\fP for more information.

.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.TP
.B elf_
Functions usable with both 32-bit and 64-bit ELF files.

.TP
.B elf32_
Functions usable with 32-bit ELF files.

.TP
.B elf64_
Functions usable with 64-bit ELF files.

.TP
.B Elf_
Type that represents data for both 32-bit and 64-bit ELF files.

.TP
.B Elf32_
Type that represents data for 32-bit ELF files.

.TP
.B Elf64_
Type that represents data for 64-bit ELF files.

.TP
.B ELF_C_
.I Elf_Cmd
values used in functions such as
.B elf_flagset
and
.BR elf_cntl .

.TP
.B ELF_F_
Flags for ELF structures.

.TP
.B ELF_K_
.I Elf_Kind
Identification values for recognized object file types.

.TP
.B ELF_T_
.I Elf_Type
values representing the known types of ELF data such as
.BR ELF_T_BYTE ,
(unsigned char)
.BR ELF_T_REL ,
(relocation entry)
or
.B ELF_T_SYM
(symbol record).

.TP
.B gelf_
Class-independent functions.

.TP
.B GElf_
Class-independent types.

.TP
.B GELF_
Class-independent macros.
.fi
.PD
.RE

.SH DATA STRUCTURES
\fBlibelf\fP implements the following data structures, in addition to including
the data structures given in the ELF specification (see
.BR elf (5)
for more information).

.SS Section Compression Header
.nf
.in +4
typedef struct {
   Elf32_Word   ch_type;
   Elf32_Word   ch_size;
   Elf32_Word   ch_addralign;
} Elf32_Chdr;

typedef struct {
   Elf64_Word   ch_type;
   Elf64_Word   ch_reserved;
   Elf64_Xword  ch_size;
   Elf64_Xword  ch_addralign;
 } Elf64_Chdr;
.fi

.TP
.I ch_type
Compression format type. Legal values include
.BR ELFCOMPRESS_ZLIB ,
.BR ELFCOMPRESS_ZSTD ,
the inclusive range between
.B ELFCOMPRESS_LOOS
to
.B ELFCOMPRESS_HIOS
as well as the inclusive range between
.B ELFCOMPRESS_LOPROC
and
.B ELFCOMPRESS_HIPROC

.RS
.TP
.PD 0
.B ELFCOMPRESS_ZLIB
ZLIB/DEFLATE algorithm.
.TP
.B ELFCOMPRESS_ZSTD
Zstandard algorithm.
.TP
.B ELFCOMPRESS_LOOS
Start of OS-specific compression types.
.TP
.B ELFCOMPRESS_HIOS
End of OS-specific compression types.
.TP
.B ELFCOMPRESS_LOPROC
Start of processor-specific compression types.
.TP
.B ELFCOMPRESS_HIPROC
End of processor-specific compression types.
.PD
.RE

.TP
.I ch_reserved
Space reserved for use by \fBlibelf\fP.

.TP
.I ch_size
Data size of uncompressed section.

.TP
.I ch_addralign
Alignment of uncompressed section.


.SS Section Data
.nf
.in +4
typedef struct {
  void *d_buf;
  Elf_Type d_type;
  unsigned int d_version;
  size_t d_size;
  int64_t d_off;
  size_t d_align;
} Elf_Data;
.fi

.TP
.I d_buf
Pointer to the actual data.
Use
.B elf_getdata
to retrieve data in memory representation and
.B elf_rawdata
to retrieve data in file representation.

.TP
.I d_type
The
.I Elf_Type
of this piece of data.  See the
.I Elf_Type
enum in
.B libelf.h
for descriptions of each value.

.TP
.I d_version
The ELF version for this data.

.TP
.I d_size
The size in bytes of this data.

.TP
.I d_off
The section offset of this data.

.TP
.I d_align
The section alignment of this data.

.SS Archive Member Header
.nf
.in +4
typedef struct {
  char *ar_name;
  time_t ar_date;
  uid_t ar_uid;
  gid_t ar_gid;
  mode_t ar_mode;
  int64_t ar_size;
  char *ar_rawname;
} Elf_Arhdr;
.fi

.TP
.I ar_name
Name of archive member.

.TP
.I ar_data
File date.

.TP
.I ar_uid
User ID.

.TP
.I ar_gid
Group ID.

.TP
.I ar_mode
File mode.

.TP
.I ar_size
File size.

.TP
.I ar_rawname
Original name of archive member.

.SS Archive Symbol Table Entry
.nf
.in +4
typedef struct {
  char *as_name;
  size_t as_off;
  unsigned long int as_hash;
} Elf_Arsym;
.fi

.TP
.I as_name
Symbol name.

.TP
.I as_off
Offset for this file in the archive.

.TP
.I as_hash
Hash value of the name.

.SH GELF DATA STRUCTURES

\fIGElf_\fP types are aliases for their \fIElf64_\fP equivalents.
See
.B elf(5)
for more information regarding the underlying types.

.TS
tab(:);
lB lB
l l.
GElf type:Underlying 64-bit type
_
GElf_Half:Elf64_Half
GElf_Word:Elf64_Word
GElf_Sword:Elf64_Sword
GElf_Xword:Elf64_Xword
GElf_Sxword:Elf64_Sxword
GElf_Addr:Elf64_Addr
GElf_Off:Elf64_Off
GElf_Ehdr:Elf64_Ehdr
GElf_Shdr:Elf64_Shdr
GElf_Section:Elf64_Section
GElf_Sym:Elf64_Sym
GElf_Syminfo:Elf64_Syminfo
GElf_Rel:Elf64_Rel
GElf_Rela:Elf64_Rela
GElf_Relr:Elf64_Relr
GElf_Phdr:Elf64_Phdr
GElf_Chdr:Elf64_Chdr
GElf_Dyn:Elf64_Dyn
GElf_Verdef:Elf64_Verdef
GElf_Verdaux:Elf64_Verdaux
GElf_Verneed:Elf64_Verneed
GElf_Vernaux:Elf64_Vernaux
GElf_Versym:Elf64_Versym
GElf_auxv_t:Elf64_auxv_t
GElf_Nhdr:Elf64_Nhdr
GElf_Move:Elf64_Move
GElf_Lib:Elf64_Lib
.TE

.SH GELF MACROS
All \fBGELF_\fP macros are aliases for their \fBELF64_\fP equivalents.
See
.B elf(5)
for more information regarding the underlying macros.

.TS
tab(:);
lB lB
l l.
GElf macro:Underlying 64-bit macro
_
GELF_ST_BIND:ELF64_ST_BIND
GELF_ST_TYPE:ELF64_ST_TYPE
GELF_ST_INFO:ELF64_ST_INFO
GELF_ST_VISIBILITY:ELF64_ST_VISIBILITY
GELF_M_INFO:ELF64_M_INFO
GELF_M_SIZE:ELF64_M_SIZE
GELF_M_SYM:ELF64_M_SYM
GELF_R_INFO:ELF64_R_INFO
GELF_R_TYPE:ELF64_R_TYPE
GELF_R_SYM:ELF64_R_SYM
.TE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <elfutils-devel@sourceware.org> or https://sourceware.org/bugzilla/.
