.\" Copyright 2026 Red Hat Inc.
.\" Fri 2026-Apr 10 Serhei Makarov <serhei@serhei.io>
.\" Contact elfutils-devel@sourceware.org to correct errors or typos

.de SAMPLE
.br
.RS 0
.nf
.nh
..
.de ESAMPLE
.hy
.fi
.RE
..

.TH EU-STACKPROF 1 "2026-Apr-10" "elfutils"
.SH "NAME"
eu-stackprof \- collect a multi-process stack profile

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B eu-stackprof [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-vv\fR|...] [\fB\-\-gmon\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fB\fIDEST\fP] [\fB\fIOPTION\fP]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

\fBeu-stackprof\fR collects stack profile data from Linux perf_events,
either systemwide across all processes or targeted to a particular
process and any children forked from it. Results are saved as
\fBgmon.out\fR files in the \fIgprof\fR\|(1) format, and are intended
to be useful for statistics collection with profiledb.

.SH "OPTIONS"

.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIEVENT\fR, \fB\-\-event\fR=\fIEVENT\fR
Configure perf_events sampling according to the provided libpfm event
specification (e.g. \fBperf::CPU\-CLOCK:freq=1000\fR).

.TP
\fB\-\-event\-list\fR
List available libpfm events and exit.

.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-force\fR
If the output directory for \fB\-\-gmon\fR already contains files,
overwrite them with the newly collected data.

.TP
\fB\-g, \-\-gmon\fR
Output program counter histograms and callgraphs for each executable
binary encountered during profiling in \fIgprof\fR\|(1)'s
\fBgmon.out\fR format.

.TP
\fB\-G\fR \fIMETHOD\fR, \-\-hist\-split\fR=\fIMETHOD\fR
Specify the method used to divide the address space into histograms
for \fB\-\-gmon\fR output. METHOD should be one of:
.RS
.TP
\fBnone\fR
Don't split: write one histogram covering the whole address range.
.TP
\fBeven\fR (default)
Split address space into histograms of equal size to satisfy
\fIgprof\fR\|(1)'s scale consistency check.
.TP
\fBflex\fR
Split address space into variable-sized histograms to minimize storage
requirements; result will likely be rejected by the \fIgprof\fR\|(1)
tool, which requires all histograms to have a consistent scale, but
should still be suitable for profiledb.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fIMAXFRAMES\fR, \fB\-\-maxframes\fR=\fIMAXFRAMES\fR
Upper bound on the number of frames to unwind for each stack sample.
Defaults to 1 if \fB\-\-gmon\fR is enabled, since additional frames
beyond the first are not needed to produce the gprof histogram and
callgraph arc data; defaults to 256 otherwise.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIDIR\fR, \-\-output\fR=\fIDIR\fR
Directory where to write results when \fB\-\-gmon\fR output is
enabled. Defaults to the current directory.

.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Output additional information. May be given once or multiple times to
increase the granularity, logging each new binary, each stack sample,
or each frame.

.SH "OUTPUT FORMAT"

When \fB\-\-gmon\fR output is enabled, \fBeu-stackprof\fR produces the
following files for each executable object observed among the profiled
processes, identified by build-id:

.TP
\fBgmon.BUILDID.exe\fR

Symlink to the executable object observed by the profiler.

.TP
\fBgmon.BUILDID.out\fR

Contains a histogram of program counters and a table of callgraph arcs
(observed from the top 2 frames of the stacktrace). Same format as
produced by the gprof infrastructure and consumed by \fIgprof\fR\|(1).

.TP
\fBgmon.BUILDID.json\fR

Metadata in JSON format, including the path to the executable object
and libpfm event information.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Profile system-wide; write gmon.out files to current directory:
.SAMPLE
eu-stackprof --gmon
.ESAMPLE

Profile PID 1211 and children forked from it; log one line per stack
sample; write gmon.out files to results/, replacing already-existing
files:
.SAMPLE
eu-stackprof -vv --gmon -o results/ -p 1211 --force
.ESAMPLE

Profile system-wide; log one line per stack frame:
.SAMPLE
eu-stackprof -vvv
.ESAMPLE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gprof (1),
.BR perf_event_open (2)
